now rep is short for repetition
repetition is basically one lift of an
exercise is raising a way it's a it's
doing a bench press me a leg extension
just one movement is one repetition you
usually want to do somewhere between six
in like 15 or 20 repetitions and that's
another thing with a variety you don't
want to always do the same number
repetitions you want to kind of change
it up a little bit sometimes do low reps
sometimes do higher reps and then one
set is one grouping of repetitions so
say you did two sets of an exercise that
means you've done maybe ten repetitions
that's one set you take a break and come
back and do another ten repetitions
that's another set so you've done two
sets of 10 reps or repetitions so when
you do this you may want to store with a
little bit of a lighter weight first
you're not that condition if you haven't
been training and your body there's an
inverse relationship between intensity
and duration you want to kind of keep
the intensity a little bit lower and
maybe do a little bit more initially
just get your body used to the movement
you don't want to pile on the weight and
do a high weight low rep set you don't
want to put on you know twice the weight
you can handle the only do four
repetitions maybe do ten or twelve to
start with maybe even 15 then as you get
stronger sometimes you can do sets of
lower numbers like six to eight once in
a while you can throw in a real shocker
and do like a century set really
lightweight and do like 100 repetitions
but the key is just keeping a variety to
the repetitions it's not having a target
number per se either you don't want to
just shoot for 15 reps and stop when you
get there you want to get to the point
where it's basically almost impossible
for you to move it that's when you stop
as long as you can safely and carefully
do that as far as sets go there's really
not that much reason to do a lot of
sense like if you do three sets of an
exercise if I do three sets of
benchpress I'm not necessarily gonna get
three times a benefit most the benefit
comes from the first rep the first set
almost tricked you so it comes from the
first set and that's why this whole menu
system if you just did those seven
exercises one set of each you're going
to get most the benefit if you have time
you want to do additional sets or do
like a warm-up set and then a heavier
set that's fine with me too